 This little black book right here is very important to me. It has all of the rules of money. And they're very simple, not that complicated to learn. But once you do, you can actually start to stack cash. I was in my 20s and I really didn't understand how to make money. I was trying hard, I was working hard, but I really wasn't getting anywhere. And once I learned the rules of money, I started to understand, oh, that's what I'm supposed to be doing. So the next 15 minutes, I'm gonna tell you exactly what these four rules of money are. What I did to go from broke to ended up making my first million at age 30 and then being worth 30 million dollars a few years later. And I was an idiot. I was running around with a fork and I was sticking into different outlets. I was learning my lessons the hard way. And I wanna save you a lot of years and a lot of pain by just telling you what I did and what actually works. So if you're somebody who today, you don't love where you're at financially, maybe you're not financially free and you wanna get to that magic number. You wanna get a million dollars liquid in your bank account. Well, this is the video for you. I'm gonna tell you the four of money rules. (upbeat music) Rule number one, you need one money-making skill. Money-making skill is a very specific term here. So when it comes to building wealth, there's really only four money-making skills. You need to pick one of these. The first one is selling. So this is persuading people, marketing, closing deals. The second one is making, which is products, apps, websites, videos, books. The next one is designing. So having really great taste, understanding form and function like a Steve Jobs type, and the fourth is hunting. So selling, making, designing, hunting. Hunting is spotting opportunities. It's finding great real estate deals or angel investing or figuring out the right stock to buy. You need to pick one of these skills and mastering. Pick the one that's of most interest to you. Now mastering it is the hard part. So you're gonna need to do it every day. And the way to do that is let's say you wanna learn sales. Selling is the master skill, the money-making skill you're trying to learn. You need to go to a place where selling is what they do. It is how they make their money. And when you get there, you're gonna get a job and you might start at the bottom of the totem pole and what you're gonna do is you're gonna look around and you're gonna ask who's the number one producer? Who is the number one sales person here? Your job's to go sit next to them and then double their input. So if they're making 100 calls a day, you're gonna make 200. They're not gonna be as good at the calls as they are, but you're gonna double the input. If they knock on 50 doors, you do 100. You get the idea. And you're gonna sit next to them and you're gonna study what they do. You're gonna observe the difference between what they're doing and what you're doing. And then you're gonna double it every single time. That's what you're doing by day. And at night, you're reading books, you're watching videos, you're obsessing over the art of selling. So your nine to five is where you get your practice reps and then your five to nine, five p.m. to nine p.m. That's where you get ideas on how to improve. I got to be friends with Mr. B so the last few years. And he's today, the number one YouTuber in the world. Every video he puts out gets hundreds of millions of views. And he showed me and he told me he was like dude, at the age of 12, I decided my skill was gonna be making YouTube videos in his case. So he wanted to be a maker. He wanted to make YouTube videos. And every day, he would open up a dictionary and he would flip to a different random word. Whatever word he got, he had to force himself to think of 20 video ideas using that word. Not all of them were good, but he would force that muscle of idea generation. 'Cause for YouTube videos, the idea, the concept is the number one thing. And then he would go try to make that video. And he would suck at it and he'd have a crappy thumbnail and a crappy lighting, crappy audio. And each day, he would try to make one of those things better in between every video. It took him like, I don't know, 100 plus videos before he even got to 10,000 subscribers before he started making any money off this thing. But he mastered the art of making videos. Warren Buffett is another example. He was a hunter. Hunting was the money-making skill he chose. And if you ever learn about Buffett, you'll learn that Buffett used to take the entire Moody's manual. So a 4,000 page book. And I'm not talking about like a Harry Potter book. This is a 4,000 pages of just corporate financials, essentially. And he would read it, cover to cover. And all he was looking for was a single stock that he thought was mispriced. High value, low price. However, his career, he's looked at, you know, literally hundreds of thousands of businesses. And in his most recent shareholder letter, he said, all of my success, I can boil down to making about 12 good investing decisions. Just that out of hundreds of thousands of things he looked at. He became a master hunter. So you want to master one of those four money-making skills, and that's a path to millions. If you master two of them, that's a path to billions. So if you look at Steve Jobs, he had designing and selling. He was one of the greatest design minds, had great taste in design. And then he also had the ability to tell the great stories and be extremely persuasive and come up with marketing campaigns. Elon Musk, he has making and selling. And that combo of sort of like a build-in, I can sell, is one of the most overpowered combinations you can have. Because you don't need to become the top 1% of anything. That takes a lifetime to become a true master. What you need to do is become top 20% at two things that are not common. So for example, an engineer who's good at marketing. You find a lot of engineers, and you don't need to become the best engineer, but you need to become an engineer who's pretty good at engineering and pretty good at marketing. That's rare enough, and you are super, super valuable. So your money-making skills are the foundation of your ability to make money. Not just once, but anytime you wish. It's like a money button, you can then push at any given time. So focus on skills before you focus on wealth. All right, rule number two, don't rent out your time, own equity. What people get wrong is they take the skill they learned, and then they get hired for it. And then if they're good at it, they get promoted for it, and they get a raise for it. And it sounds like, well, I guess I'm moving in the right direction. I'm getting rich. Actually you're moving in the complete wrong direction. As Naseem tell him, says, "The two most addictive things in the world are heroin and a monthly salary. You do not want to get hired to provide services where you're trading your time for their dollars. Renting out your time is not a path to get rich. Even the people who rent their time out at a high price, for at a lawyer, $1,000 an hour, they cap out. You know the rich lawyers, they're all partners in the firm, meaning they own equity in the firm, meaning they get a cut of other lawyers' work, not their own. So how do you own equity? Well, two ways, either you're going to invest, but you don't have the cash to do that maybe, or you're going to start a business. So the question comes, what kind of business should you start? How do you take that money-making scale and turn it into a business? There's three things, three words to know. They all start with the letter C. Code, content, or capital. So code is like making a website or an app. I'll give you an example. My friend was a designer. He used to make $200,000 a year as part of a design agency. He was an employee, he was making a good living. And he was designing websites for clients. Client walks to the door, asked for something, he would design it. Well, he figured out he needed to turn his skill into a product or a business. And so he quit his job, and he started making Shopify themes. So he would make a theme, and he could take that same theme, and he could sell it to 2,000 different customers. And by the way, he didn't have to go and hand sell it to them. He would be asleep, and they would be coming to his site, finding a library of themes, and they would buy one. And now he pulls in $2 million a year of cash flow. He lives half the year in Bali, half the year in Japan. And he is living his dream life, because he understood the rules of money, how to first create a money-making skill, design, and then how to turn it into a business, because he doesn't want to rent out his time. He wants to own equity. I'll give you another example, content. Let's take someone who's pretty big at content in the business world, a guy named Alex Formozi. He took his master money-making skill, which is selling. And he turned it into videos, YouTube videos, books, and courses. His last book launch, he just did it about a month ago. His last book launch sold 3 million copies. And with all the add-on courses he added to it, he made $100 million in a single weekend. $100 million as one guy, because he understood that he didn't need to sell his time in hourly chunks of consulting, he needed to turn it into a business. The last example is capital. So what does capital mean? Well, this is really for the skill of hunting, usually. But it can be used for any of these. So this is where you want to take the money-making skill you have, and you want to use it in the art of investing. My cousin did this. So my cousin had a job making six figures. But he was sick of it. He didn't want to report to the office. He didn't like all the politics. He didn't like the boring meetings. So he quit his job, and he decided, I'm going to learn the art of hunting multifamily real estate, so like apartment buildings. He spent two years mastering that skill under somebody else who had been doing that for a decade. So he went, and he learned, and he identified the highest output person, and he doubled their inputs. And then he left to do his own deals. And in his first year doing his own deals, they bought about $40 million of real estate using down payments or equity from other investors who were happy to give him a cut because he was doing the hunting. He was finding the killer deal, the deal that would perform above market, that had a good margin of safety. He became a great hunter, and he translated that into a business using this method of capital. So take away here is, if you only rent out your time, you'll never get off the treadmill. Equity is the way. All right, rule number three. And this is the hardest rule of all of them. Okay, you ready for it? Four letters. Wait. (laughs) You can't plant the seed in the soil, and then the next day come dig it up and scream at it. Why aren't you growing yet, right? That's not how a plant grows. You need to water it, you need to give it to sunlight, and you need to wait, let the thing actually grow. Because if you're doing what I've said, right, you have developed one of the four money-making skills. You have not just developed it, you've spent two years really grinding and mastering, then you have turned that into a business that you own equity in. Well, now getting rich is actually inevitable, but inevitable is not the same thing as instantaneous. So the bad news is, yes, it's gonna take trial and error, it's gonna take a couple years for you to get it all figured out. But the good news is, you only need to get rich once in a lifetime. And once you get rich once, as long as you're not totally an idiot, and you're gonna blow it all, you can just let that compound from there. So, the secret here is you have to be willing to wait. Now, waiting doesn't mean just sitting around doing nothing. The phrase I heard that I love best is comes from Naval, he said, "Be impatient with action, and patient with results." That combination, impatient with action, patient with results, is a killer, unbeatable combination. I would never wanna compete with somebody who was like that, and that's a good test for if you should be coming. (upbeat music) PS, before I go to the next one, if you're liking what's in this video and you actually want the notes from this, the team has actually written everything down from this video, so you don't have to write it down yourself, you can get it, it's in the description below. All right, let me keep going. The final rule, rule number four, proximity is power. Even though I told you to wait, you know that good things take time, you're still gonna hate waiting, I hated it, you're gonna hate it too. The good news is, you can actually speed up the result. How? You can make the plant grow a little faster, and the way you do it is, you move. Literally, you move, so if you wanna be a tech founder, you need to move to San Francisco. If you wanna make movies, you go to LA. Now, it's not that you had to do it, but if you want to increase your odds and you wanna go faster, that's what you would do, because proximity is power, meaning, you wanna be as close as you can to the White Hot Center of Action, you wanna go join the network of people who are doing what you do, you wanna be around people who have the same dream as you, who are in the same game, as you maybe they're a little bit ahead and they can share what's going on, maybe they're right where you are, and you can all grow together and learn from each other's mistakes so that you don't have to learn every single mistake, the hard way yourself. And when I say move, I don't just mean move to the city. I mean, you move to a house with as many like-minded, smart, ambitious, interesting people as you can. When I moved to San Francisco, I moved into a house with six other tech founders who I didn't know, and they weren't the best roommates, and the bathrooms were stinky, and all that good stuff. But the more important thing was I was around a group of really smart, ambitious people chasing the same dream as me, and those became great friends, those became connections, those became, you know, warm introductions to investors, you don't know exactly how it's all going to play out, but you're creating luck for yourself. You learn faster, it's like osmosis. Just being around them will make you think a little differently, work a little differently, you know. If you hang out with a bunch of broke complainers, you'll become one. If you hang out with a bunch of killers, you will level up too. There's a cliche that's been around for a long time, you know, you're the average of the five people you spend the most time with. Well, it's a cliche, but it's true, and it's been around for a long time for a reason. So if you want to change your life, change your zip code. I'll tell you a little story. I was 24 years old, I was living in Australia, trying to start a startup. I wanted to be an entrepreneur. And I went to a local meetup for other founders. I thought I should get around to some other founders. And at the meetup, they, when they asked me, they said, hey, will you be the keynote speaker? Will you give the talk this week on stage? And I think I was supposed to be flattered, but no, I was horrified. I was like, me? 24 year old dumb shit me. I haven't done anything. If I'm the smartest guy in this room, I'm in the wrong room. So the next week, I literally pack my debt bags. I bought a one-way ticket to San Francisco with no plan. I didn't even have a place to stay. But I knew that I needed to get around people who were smarter and the most ambitious, smart group of people that I could, who all had the same dream as me. So let's recap. If you've done these four things, you've picked one of the four money-making skills, and you've done your two years mastering it. You then don't rent out your time and fall down the career trap of getting hired and getting raises. You take that skill and you start a business based on code, content, or capital. Then you wait and you're impatient with your action, but you're very patient with your results. And lastly, proximity is power. You speed up your development by moving to the White Hot Center and getting around like-minded people. Well, congratulations. You have flipped the odds. The best advice in the world is to take actions that would make it absolutely unreasonable for you to fail. Let's take another example. Weight loss, dieting, right? I've been a type of person who's tried. Many diets failed many times. And I think that's pretty common. I would say that dieting probably has a failure rate of 80 or 90%. Let's pretend with your diet, you just decided to do four things right. You made four decisions. So you ate clean whole foods, high protein, you exercise daily and you slept well. If you actually did those things and you did the weight process where you let it unfold, it is now actually unreasonable for you to not lose weight to get into great shape. You have flipped the odds from 90% failure rate to 90% success rate. And that's what we're gonna do in the world of business and getting rich is we've all heard the stats, right? 90% of new businesses fail. Well, that's true. Startups, individual, business ideas do fail, but founders don't. If you keep going and your rate of learning is high, you follow the four rules I just told you, you will not fail. I'll leave you with the Steve Martin story that always inspired me. Steve Martin, the great comedian, he wanted to learn the banjo. And when he was young, he started learning the banjo and he couldn't tell the difference in his C chord and G chord and his teacher was like, "Yeah, I'm not gonna lie. It's not like you have a huge natural talent for the banjo." And he was getting frustrated and impatient because he wanted to be great at something. He wanted the result, but it wasn't happening. And it didn't seem like he was naturally on track to get there, but he made a little mindset shift. He said, "You know what? Instead of trying to be great at the banjo today, let me just make a decision." He said, "I'm gonna play the banjo for 40 years because I can't imagine that somebody who's been playing the banjo for 40 years still sucks at it." And just by taking that long-term time horizon and understanding that he could flip his odds of success from probably gonna be one of those guys who tries it doesn't happen for him and I give up to. Well, if I just stuck with this for 20, 40 years, I think I'd be great at it. And by the way, it never took 40 years. Within a decade, Seymour and actually won multiple Grammys for his songs where he's playing the banjo. He changed his mindset around the banjo and years later is actually winning Grammys for it. And so this is the formula. This is the way. I hope you take this. I hope you be successful with this. I have nothing but love for you. I really root for you. And so if this was helpful, leave me a comment below. And maybe I'll do a follow-up video. It's a little more detailed, but these are the high level, the four-money rules. (upbeat music)
