 Hi there. I'm Lance Cottrell, your host at Feel the Boot. And today, I'm talking to John Lee of Pick Food. He's got an interesting story and company, but I brought him on in particular because of his interest in testing assumptions in businesses. So, he's built an entire platform around testing, messaging, testing ideas, pricing, images, product design, almost anything. And he really has a strong passion in the importance of doing this kind of testing very early before you spend time and money and effort into building solutions to make sure that you're actually building the right thing. And I'm excited enough about what he's doing. That I asked him to give us a coupon code. I'm going to put it down in the description where you'll be able to get a substantial discount off the first test that you run on the Pick Food platform. And I'm not an affiliate. I don't take anything from this, but I think it'll be a great tool for you going forward. And I hope you enjoy the interview. John, welcome to Feel the Boot. Thanks so much for having me. So, we've talked a little bit before this recording. And we exchanged some emails. Why don't you tell us a little bit just for context of what your startup does? Yeah. So, my startup is named is called Pick Food. You can think of Pick Food as a digital focus group. So, the same way that large brands and CPGs, like Procter and Gamble, use large focus groups to figure out their product packaging, testing, marketing, all of that stuff. Pick Food lets you do that in a self service way. And we tap into the same global consumer panels that are used by the large CPGs. So, Pick Food as self service. You can come on the site, choose your target audience, ask a question, post up to eight different options to either choose from or get feedback from. And you can get responses and feedback from your target audience in typically 30 minutes or less. Very cool. But that's not actually where you started, right? No, it's not. So, why don't you tell us that story? Because I think pivot stores are always interesting because so many companies end up doing things that are radically different than where they started. Yeah. So, it's kind of a pivot story. It's kind of not really a pivot story. So, my co-founder and I, we have been entrepreneurs for over a dozen years working together. Our backgrounds were in large software development. I was at Microsoft and he was at Hewlett Packard. And we left our jobs to start building websites, actually. So, our initial company together was building a site that aggregated restaurant menus and put those online, learned a lot about sort of just building sites, monetizing sites, SEO or getting traffic and so on. Along the way, we built a handful of other side projects. But the main thing where PICFU came from is that we, being a team of two, we kept having disagreements about design decisions, like both of us are software engineers and so, you know, without a ton of design experience. And so, his, you know, his guess was as good as mine and my guess was as good as his and every time we would butt heads, we'd ask our friends and family for feedback and, you know, that they would be, we knew that they would be biased and, at some point, they kind of got tired of giving feedback, you know. And so, when faced with the problem of trying to get unbiased feedback, we did what software engineers do, which is we built a tool. So, we built a tool to get us unbiased feedback on our design decisions. Logos, you know, logos, page layouts, marketing copy, collateral, all of that stuff. And we just kind of put it on the side. I think we put like a PayPal button on it, posted it to a handful of communities, but continued working on our main project. And that went on for a couple of years. And every, every couple of months or so, we would check in and we saw that PICFU was growing, you know, hey, more and more people found it. You can see people seem to like it. And then we'd go back to our main, then we'd go back to our main project. A couple more months passed, we'd check again, same thing. Oh, now it's showing up and being used in other verticals as well. That's fascinating. And then we'd focus on the main project again. And so eventually, after a couple iterations of that, we realized that, you know, despite our best wishes, the traction on our main project was not going where we wanted it to go. And the traction on PICFU was growing. And so we decided to make up pivot there in terms of focusing our efforts, our time and energy on PICFU and growing it. And that's what we've been doing ever since. Yeah, it's funny how building a product to solve a problem that you can't find a good solution to tends to be a good way of identifying problems that need solving. Yeah, when, yeah, when you're, I guess the easiest way to build something that people might want is to start looking at your own problems first, solving those. And maybe if that's a big enough problem that you're solving, then that solution could prove useful for other people too. So obviously you take testing seriously, how do you feel that the testing fits into the process of building a startup, building a company of any sort? I think that, I think that testing assumptions, and, you know, there's a phrase we use like test before you invest, like testing your assumptions, testing your hypotheses not only potentially lead to better outcomes, but they reduce a lot of downside risk. So I see it, it's kind of like the two aren't exactly the same, right? Like you can't test a hypothesis and prove that it's going to skyrocket. Like it's going to be a rocket ship. But you can very quickly, and if you can test, you can very quickly disprove a hypothesis about, oh, well, you know, I think that this kind of marketing, this kind of marketing message towards this audience is going to be the thing that resonates, or this kind of product feature or this kind of product benefit towards this potential target customer set is going to resonate or not. If you can test that out before you actually commit it to whether it's code or print or publication or whatnot, then you improve your chances of having a better outcome for that project. Right. Yeah. The more ways that you can fail, you eliminate before you spend money, the better off you are. Do you have any examples of cases where your testing and experimentation led to important effort savings or failed directions or made a critical impact on your path? Yeah, on our path or on our customers? On yours, but or your customers. Sure. I mean, we've definitely helped a lot of customers and some of the biggest names in e-commerce as well. There was one company where we work with a lot of people who sell on Amazon and there was a company named Thrasio where they had a business which was to buy up individual Amazon shops and then optimize their, optimize their offerings, like their listings and then their products and so on. And so there is this one product called Angry Orange. It was a pet deodorizing product. It worked really well. You know, it worked really well, but it, the design on the bottle and everything else was kind of subpar. And so the theory, the thesis behind that the Thrasio team had was that they could purchase this listing, rebrand the product, rebrand the bottle and do everything. Don't change the composition of the product at all and that it could do better. So the decision that they faced was that, that rebranding, they actually went through about 300 different designs for the rebranding process. And the one that they wanted involved a $50,000 production design change because they wanted an orange bottle because the product was named Angry Orange. They wanted it to pop in the listings and on the store shelves and everything. And so to justify that decision, that go no go decision, they went to take food and ran about six poles, cost about $500 in total pulled about 200 to 300 people. So they got those results in about three days. And those results validated that, yes, not just did, not only did the design that they wanted to go with, beat out the original design, they'd also beat out all the other variations that they were considering. So those tests gave them the confidence to pull the trigger on that rebranding decision. And then they pulled the trigger on it. And the day after they relaunched the product on Amazon with the new packaging and everything else, their sales 10xed overnight. So it went from a $2 million a year brand to a $19.5 million a year listing purely on the basis of the rebranding, full marketing rebrand and the packaging and everything else. That just took to show how much of the decision making that we do, we like to pretend that we're rational about these things. But the packaging to look, the feel, the name, all those things matter so much. So what sorts of things does Pikfoo lend itself to testing? Where are the boundaries around that? Sure. I mean, so on Pikfoo, you can ask open-ended feedback. So Pikfoo basically lets you get votes and written feedback from a large set of panelists. We have about 15 million panelists globally. You can test between one to eight different options. So you can get open-ended feedback. If you had an idea for a startup, let's say around like nursing homes or car washers or so on, you could just put that idea concept, including pricing and everything out there and get feedback on that idea. If you needed to test eight different images for a Facebook ad or something, you could put that there too. You can test images, audio, text, video. And the nice thing is that because all the panelists provide written responses, you not only understand which option they prefer, you also understand why. And what's the ability to target a particular sort of type of user or demographic or background? Absolutely. We are really proud of the depth of targeting that we offer, so we cover all the standard demographics of age, gender, income, and so on. And then we also have really deep targeting like if you're an Amazon prime member, if you're a pet owner, if you're specifically a dog or a cat or a horse or a fish owner, if you exercise frequently, whether you're taking nutritional supplements, the types of video games that you like to play. So almost anything that-- if you're selling online, almost any product category, a lot of digital entertainment categories as well. And we're constantly actually building new targeting capabilities based on the request from our users. It sounds very B2C oriented. Do you have options for more of a B2B kind of targeting? We have some options. Our main focus is because our panels draw from general consumer panels, most of our targeting is B2C targeting. We do offer some limited B2B targeting, like small business owners and so on. But we're looking to expand those options, too. So what's you thinking about how to test kind of larger questions about the model? So the examples you're giving tend to be sort of, here's the name, here's the price, here's the image, things like that. But try to validate whether or not kind of the concept is moving in the right direction. Do you have thoughts about the best way to do that? Yeah, and so it can be challenging to ask
